Special

Edition
Volume I.XIX
LEXINGTON. VIRGINIA. MAY I, 1970
Number 41-A
Faculty Permits Student Absenteeism
In a special meeting laat night the WAL faculty pasted a resolution which allows students, who feel morally obligated, to absent themselves for the remainder of this semester.

Under the faculty's resolution departing students can make up their
uncompleted work any time from the dale of leaving until September JO. 1970.

Seniors who expect to graduate in June may absent themselves, lake their exams immediately upon arrangement with their professors, and then leave school. They will still
A concerned Mil student looks on at a rally held Wednesday at the Unhersity of Virginia. The rally was attended by over 200 VUI students.
Text Of Resolution Before Student Body
(Editor's Notr: The following is tbr lest of a referendum resolution drawn up by the ad hoc committer which met in the Uaiver^ty ('eater t ockpll last night. Its content will he put to a vote at 1:00 this afternoon la the special student body meeting in the front of lee ChaprLl Whereas: We the stuJenis of Washington and Lee desire to express our concern over the present war in Indochina, we intend to express this concern by Joining with oar fellow students in this country by closing Washington and Lee as of May II. 1970

Through whatever channels the faculty deems necessary and with all possible haste we urge that the following be implemented:

1.	Declare all classes cancelled retroactive to May 6. until the fall of 1970 and direct the university towards the crisis in this country.

2.	As a substitute for classes, students, teachers, and others inter ested will use the facilities of the university to conduct seminars
and hold discussions open to everyone on the economic, political. philosophical, sociological, etc., ramifications of the Indochina War.

In addition, it ia hoped that the educational experiences can aid in exploring other problems — pre sent and potential — facing our society and our world.

Whereas classes will have ended at of May II. 1970. it will he up to the individual student to arrange for grades on the follow.ng basis. A student may opt for other (I) grades in his preient p/f and letter combination or (2) all pass/fail on work completed as of May 6, 1970.

Graduating seniors will not be deemed to have completed their requirements for graduation until lune 5. 1970

Given the unique situation of the law school and American Bar Association requirements, the stu dents of the law school may take action they deem necessary to meet their requirements
graduate with their class and receive (heir diplomas.

Any student can make arrangements with his professor to take his exams at any time until September 30.

A student can absent himself by writing a letter stating his reasons for temporary withdrawal to the Faculty Executive Committee. Immediately on receipt of that letter by the Faculty EC. a student is considered to be absent.

This resolution stemmed from the one adopted by the Faculty Executive Committee prior to the student meeting in the University Center yesterday afternoon.

In passing this resolution the faculty recognized the "sense of im-
mediate concern they (the stuJcnts) feel about major national issues." The faculty resolution also staled that a student still will be considered as enrolled at WAL under the approved program. For those stuJcnts who choose to stay on campus, the faculty endorsed a program whereby students will be able to study the present national situation.

The resolution also noted that "notwithstanding the depth of this feeling of some students, the faculty docs not believe that Washington and Lee classes should be suspended or its educational respon tibilky be abandoned."

The resolution was a result of three hours of deliberation by the faculty and takes effect immediately
Cockpit Meeting Proposes Referendum For Students
In order for students on this campus who fed a moral obligation lo do "something in the real world,” an interested group of 73 students and faculty gathered in the Univer-
Another Side

(Editor's Note: The Rmg-tum Phi offers (his statement as an expres sion of an opposing view drafted by a group of students which form the "Committee To Keep The University Community Together ")

Take a derp breath and km at to tea.

The rad teats derided not to give you until Monday to think over fee probable roaarqurares of tlodox dossa fee I aiversUy. Jn*« stop a minute and think.

(losing \S aahington and lee for a month Is not like riming an elementary ta-hool three days lot iaoa, The farulty resolution allows those who feel as ore immediate concerns to poatponr their srhoed work. The proposed student body, acitoa. It a cop-out He cannot dec tore Washington sad lee education irrelevant and samulantrousls etpetl fee real of the world to coatiauc to take it vrriously.
isty Center Cockpit Thursday afternoon to discuss the possibility of the University's allow,ng students to leave school for the rest of this semester.

"The purpose of this ad hoc committee," said Fran Lawrence, president-elect of the student body, "is to have an open discussion about what we want the faculty to do about suspension of classes."

Seaman Ogilvic, junior EC member. informed the group that the faculty Executive Committee was in session at the time, and had called a special meeting of the faculty, which was held last n ght.

At 6 pm the meeting in the Cockpit reconvened with senior Gates Shaw in charge. The principal business of the meeting was the drafting of a resolui on. which ap pears elsewhere on this page.

The resolution was passed by the students assembled at the Cockpit and will be presented to the s:uJcnt body at large at 1:00 this afternoon A proposal by senior Paul Morrow rspressmg concern over the plight of stuJcnts w.thing to continue their classes was defeated Another motion to present the Faculty ws.it the proposal soon after k was drafted laat night was alto dc feated following Shaw's remark that "we don't want to inundate the faculty with demanJv wh.ch don't even come from the student body as a whole"
